# L-Systems

### About L-Systems

An L-system consists of:
- An alphabet of different strings (e.g. `"F","+","-"`)
- Rules that specify how "letters" in the alphabet are replaced with other strings (e.g. `F -> F+F-F`)
- An axiom which is the starting string upon which the rules act in successive iterations (e.g. `FF-F`)

### Turtle interpretation

In this program, we visualise the strings generated by subsequent iterations of the using turtle interpretation. The character `F` instructs the turtle to move forward by 1 unit, `+` rotates the turtle by X degrees and `-` by rotates by -X degrees. This draws the L-system from the string. Branches are denoted by brackets `[]` and can be included in the rules to generate shapes with branching structures.

### Creating and Visualising a basic L-System

To visualise an L-system in this program:
- Add a rule set and define at least one rule using the characters in this alphabet at least once `"F","+","-","[","]"`. Other characters can be used too, but will not be interpreted by the turtle.
  - Rules contain a key and a value. During an iteration the value will replace the key.
- Set the number of iterations to a desired number - start lower as L-systems can very quickly become too large to compute in a reasonable timeframe.
- Define the branching angle X.
- Define the axiom.
- Select the rule set and the axiom and press generate.

### Creating a context sensitive L-System

Context sensitivity is where the string that replaces a "letter" depends on the surrounding letters. It is therefore a property of the rules of an L-system. To specify context sensitive rules, enter the rule key in this format `"left-context<X>right-context"`. This will replace the letter X with the associated rule value only when X has left-context to the left and right-context to the right in the string. E.g. for the alphabet `"F1","F0","+","-","[","]"`, the rule `F0<F1>F0 -> +[F1F1]-F` means `F1` is replaced by `+[F1F1]-F` only when `F0` is to the left and `F1` is to the right.